Okay, so let's get to work.

So number one is creating an object for each of them.

So object mark.

So full name property, Mark Miller.

Then the mass, which is 78 kilograms.

And then the height, which is 1.69 meters.

So that's it for now.

And now I'm just gonna copy this.

As always, I'm a bit lazy and that's just how programmers are, I guess.

So John Smith and he is 92 kilos and 1.95 meters tall.

Okay, so that is point number one.

And now we will create the calcBMI method And then a function without any parameters because we will take the data directly from the object just like we did it with the calcH method previously.

And remember that it says here that we should store the BMI value to a property and also return it from the method.

So this means that we will do this.BMI and then do the calculation here.

And remember from the formula the BMI is calculated by this.mass divided by this.height squared.

So exponentiation operator with two and then also return it.

So this.bmi and just to see if this actually works let's actually call this method.

So mark.calc.BMI.

And now I will quickly lock to the console the property that we just created.

So I could have locked this to the console directly but I want to do it this way now and it doesn't really matter.

So with this, remember we created a property called BMI and so that is now of course accessible here.

So mark.bmi because remember that here in this method this now points to mark because that is the object that is calling the method and therefore this.bmi will be on mark.

So mark.bmi equals mark.mass divided by mark.height.

And so that's how we get this data into this method.

Alright, so that's essentially what we learned in the last lecture.

And so here I'm doing the same.

I'm first calculating this value and then I'm doing mark.bmi which was added here in this method call.

Of course, without this method call mark.bmi would not be available because this method here doesn't call itself.

We need to explicitly call it.

Now console ah, missing the .log.

How can that still happen after all these years?

Okay, so here we get the BMI of 27 which seems about right.

And now as I said, we will simply go ahead and copy this method exactly the same to this John object and it will work just the same, believe me.

So let me show that to you.

So now we call john.calcBMI.

And so now the object calling calcBMI is John.

And so now in this method here this will point to the John object.

And so this time John.bmi will be calculated using John's data of mass and height.

Okay, are you still following that?

As always, you can pause the video analyze the code on your own or you can always rewind to hear the explanation again.

I actually like to do that myself when I watch other online video courses.

So I think that's a good tip maybe.

Anyway, so we just calculated the BMI of John here as well.

And so now I'm logging both to the console.

And so yeah, this one also looks correct.

And so this means that simply copying this method from one place to the other actually makes it work and adapt to the data of each object.

Now having the exact same code in both of these objects kind of violates the don't repeat yourself principle, right?

And actually there is a way in which we can avoid this.

And of course we will learn how at a later point in the course using something called object-oriented programming.

But for now we are still learning the basics and just want to make things work and of course have some fun along the way.

So this was the hardest part I believe at least.

Now all we have to do is to write this string here.

Let me actually copy the example so we have it as a reference down here.

Otherwise I'm gonna get a bit lost.

So if mark.bmi is larger than john.bmi then console.log.

So let's get the full name now from the object.

So mark.fullNameBMI.

And now we also need it here in these parenthesis.

So let's put it there.

mark.bmi is higher than and now let me just copy it here.

So and again I'm using command D to select the next occurrence.

And then let's just replace it with John.

So Mark's BMI is higher than John's bmi.

And now let's grab this again.

Else if john.bmi is larger than mark.bmi then essentially say the opposite.

So here it's gonna be John, and again command D and here, it's gonna be Mark.

Okay, so 27 is higher than 24 and that 27 belongs to Mark.

And so this seems to be about right but it's not completely right.

So ah, of course here it should be lowercase.

So bmi.

And now I cannot use the command D because then it will select this one as well.

So I'm double clicking on this one and I hope that you're finding these vs code tips useful as well.

So I'm clicking or actually I'm double clicking on this one then I hold down the command key, which in your case might be the control key or maybe the option key.

So I know there are different configurations for this and it might not even work for you so please don't ask any question in that case.

But for me I just have to hit command and then I can double click on multiple words and then all of them get selected.

So now I have these four multiple cursors here again and I can simply delete all of them and write the one that I'm interested in.

So that's the lowercase bmi and now we get the correct values and also this conditional logic is correct as well.

And so with this, we did actually solve the challenge.

And with this we also finished this introduction to JavaScript objects.

And once again, I really want to congratulate you for the progress that you are making here.

Great job and really well done.

And I really mean it because I know how hard it is to stick to a course like this and to learn a completely new thing that is probably a bit confusing for you at this point still.

Just keep in mind that that is absolutely no problem at all.

And actually in the next section I believe I have a video about how to learn, how to learn basically.

So about learning how to code and there's a lot of great tips that I'm sharing there.

So once you reach that, make sure to watch it carefully.

But now anyway, I will leave you to review this lecture if you want or to move on together with me to the next video where we are now gonna start talking about loops.
