And now, it's time for coding challenge number three.

And we are still working on our football betting application.

Now this time, we have this map down here.

So this one, which contains all the events that happened during the game.

So the values here are the events themselves, for example, a goal or a substitution, and the keys are the minutes, in which the event occurs.

And just notice, that a football game has 90 minutes, plus some extra time.

So this might be a little bit over 90, but usually it's always 90 minutes, in case you're not familiar with this beautiful game.

Anyway, your tasks are to create an array called events, which will contain all the different game events that happened during this game.

And that means no duplicates in that array.

Now, after the game has finished, it was found that the yellow card from minute 64 was unfair.

So please just remove this event from the log.

Next up print dis string to the console.

An event happened on average every nine minutes.

And of course, your task is to calculate this nine minutes, keeping in mind, that a game has 90 minutes.

Finally, loop over the events, and then log into the console.

And what's tricky about this, is that you should mark whether they happened in the first half of the game, or the second half.

And the second half means, that it happened after 45 minutes.

So it should look something like this.

So I believe that this challenge is a little bit easier than the previous one, and so hopefully you can manage to complete all of these four tasks.

So I'll see you once you're done.

So, I hope that was fun.

So let's get started immediately with the solution here.

So we should create an array called events, with the unique events.

So basically, that's the unique values of all of these here.

Now, what are these values here?

They are essentially the values of this map, right?

So, what I'm saying, is that they are in gameEvents.values.

And we learned about this one kind of by the end of the last video.

So let's comment out this one here.

And so indeed, we see that this is what contains the values that we are interested in.

Alright.

So, let's say gameEvents.values, and this is our starting point, and now to get the unique values here, we basically need to create a set, out of this, right?

That's the main use case of sets.

So, new set, but this alone is not going to be enough, but let's still take a look, at this for now, and beautiful.

So, indeed we have a set with the only four events that happened.

So, there were only goals, substitutions yellow cards and red cards.

And now to convert us to an array, we do adjust like before.

Create a new array, and a spread operator to unpack this set, and then we are done.

Next up, this one is the easiest one, so it tells us to delete the event from minute 64.

So that's very easy.

So gameEvents.delete, and now all we have to do is to use that exact key, and then that event will be gone.

Great. The next one is just as easy I believe.

So let's just grab this from here.

And now we just need to calculate this actual average.

And how do we do that?

So basically, to say that an event happened every X minutes, we simply need to divide the number of events by 90 minutes.

So the duration of the game.

So, we see here that we have three, six, nine, eleven events.

So, how can we count that programmatically?

Well, for that we have gameEvents.size, remember?

And now we just divide that by 90, and with that, we get this weird number and that's because in fact we need the opposite.

So we need to say 90 minutes divided by how many events there happened, to say that on average, something happened every nine minutes.

Now, if we want it to be really specific, then this game actually lasted 92 minutes.

So, how do we get that value?

So this is just a bonus, Okay?

I didn't expect you to do this one.

So this 92, is essentially the last of the keys of the map.

I'm sold. Let's get the keys.

So, that's gameEvents.keys.

And as always, we need to convert this to an array.

So, using all the tools that we already learned.

So just to make sure, indeed it is.

And now we want the last value.

And how can we get the last value?

Do you remember that?

Well, we can use the pop method.

And in the past, we mainly used the pop method, to simply delete the last element of the array.

But also, back then I told you, that it also returns, that deleted array.

Or actually that deleted element.

And so, here we can take the advantage of that.

So, this here is an array now, and so on that, we can call pop.

And so that will take, the last element out of the array and give it to us.

So that's 92.

And so to make this really accurate, here we can now say, time.

Okay. And so this, is even better right now, but again, this is just kind of a bonus just to show you some more nice little tricks.

Anyway. Now our goal is to loop through the object, or actually through the map.

And so this is pretty standard now at this point.

Here we are missing the off.

So just like we did in the last video, and now all we need to do, is to figure out the half.

So if it's the first half, or the second half.

So, what we want to lock to the console is this.

And then so, either a first or second half, and then the minute, I believe, let's see.

Yeah. So, the minute and then colon, and then the event.

So let's actually make these here more specific, so a minute and event.

So that makes it easier to read the code.

So minute and event.

And now here, let's just again, create an external variable, which I'm going to call the Half.

And let's use the turnery operator here again, so if the minute is below or equal 45, then it is the first, otherwise it's the second, and that's it.

And, that worked just fine once again. Okay.

So, I hope that made sense, in case it didn't, then it's always just analyze the code, or you can also just ask some questions in the Q and A area.

Anyway, we're now almost done with this section.

Next up, all we have left to do is to work with strengths, which is also a really nice and really interesting topic that we need in JavaScript all the time.

So make sure to follow me there, right away.
